what is up guys karma medic here and
today we're gonna be doing the final
section of the you can exam that I
haven't covered yet which is
quantitative reasoning I've left it till
the end because I personally think it's
probably one of the more difficult
sections and it's what I've been putting
off the most but if you haven't seen my
videos on the other sections of the
Yukons decision making situational
judgment abstract reasoning and verbal
reasoning I've done videos on those this
year and also last year I'll leave a
link in the description to a playlist
that contains all of those videos if you
want to see more now if you guys are
looking for tips specific to the
quantitative reasoning section I would
direct you to the video that I posted
last year and then I go into detail
about all the tips that I think are
really important for quantitative
reasoning but this year I just want to
recap on a couple that I think are the
most important so first things first
becoming familiar with the on-screen
calculator is very very key the ability
to use that quickly and efficiently is
going to be very important to not waste
time and if there is a little bit of a
learning curve getting used to using it
so I would make sure that you always
practice with the on-screen calculator
and figure out how to use it quickly the
second thing I would say is improving
your mental Maps is also very important
there is going to be a lot of
calculations that you can do quickly in
your head and if you have to use a
calculator to do that it's gonna waste a
lot of time so being able to improve
your mental maths that you have most of
your multiplications or divisions down
and you can at least guess an
approximation of a number in your head
is gonna go a very long way and then
finally there's a list of equations that
you should just know off by heart so
that if you see a question where you're
gonna have to use them you already know
that equation and you can quickly just
write it down you don't have to waste
time thinking about it and you can
actually get the mic for that question
by using that equation okay and then one
more tip which I actually think is
probably the most important one is that
you learn to triage the questions that
either you are not good at personally so
for example I knew that tax related
questions or questions involving many
different time zones
I just wasn't naturally good at for
questions that you know are gonna take
you a long time to answer so sometimes I
would read a question in quantitative
reasoning and I would know just from
reading it but this is a four-step
question or a five-step question and if
I recognize that from the beginning then
that's a question that I would just
guess and move on and come back to later
because I don't invest all that time
doing five steps just for one mark when
there's probably a bunch of questions
after that that are gonna be worth 1
mark as well but probably a lot easier
and I'd also like to say a big thank you
to mehta phi for partnering with me on
these videos they are the online you
can't question bank that I've been using
for all of last year and for this year
in order to make these you cat videos
for you guys they're just a really good
resource that a lot of you have told me
has helped you very much and so if you
want to learn more about it or check it
out for yourself there will be links in
the description down below
you guys can click on those and check
out mattify alright so let's jump onto
my computer so we can start doing some
questions so how many of the studied
states spend more than 13.6 million USD
on education so state state state sigh
only see states here and percentage of
budget hundred social activity spent by
each state on education we know that the
social sector budget is 18 million okay
and we want to know how many spent more
than thirteen point six million so we
want to know what thirteen point six
million is as a percentage of eighteen
thirteen point six divided by 18 is 17
percent so if these states here spent
more than 17 percent of the social
sector budget on education then we'll
add them to the list for this answer
okay so we know that thirteen point six
million is 17 percent of 80 million and
so here seventeen percent is here so
only Alabama spent more so just one
state what is the range value of USD
spent on education by the states shown
so the range is the highest - the lowest
so the siglos first California spent
eight percent of 80 million so let's
find out what that is really quick so
0.08 times 80 million so they spent 6.4
million and the highest one Alabama
spent 21% so 18 times 21 percent which
is zero point two one is 16.8 so sixteen
point eight minus 6.4 will give us the
range which is ten point four million
USD if Idaho spends this Texas spends
thought since he spends on conference
comes out on the environment how much
does Alabama spend in millions of USD on
the environment okay how are we gonna
figure that on oh so here's the mean
number of dollars spent by the states so
the average on the environment is
thirteen point six so nine point one
plus five point six plus seventeen point
eight plus eleven point seven
Plus Alabama ok / 1 2 3 4 5 is equal to
the average which it gives us up here
for the environment was thirteen point
six so first we're gonna do five times
thirteen point six to find the total
five times to eighteen point six is
equal to 68 then we do 68 minus all
those things so 68 minus the numbers
that we have here so nine point one
minus five point six minus 17.8 minus
eleven point seven so that's twenty
three point eight left for Alabama to
spend next the mean number of dollars
spent by the state's on crime increases
at a rate of six percent each year what
would the mean expenditure by the
state's be in four years time okay so
there is an equation for this similar to
like compound interest but I don't
remember that equation but since it's
only four years I can do the four
calculations and I should be okay
shouldn't take me too much time mean
number of dollars on crime is one point
four so now we need to see a 6% increase
each time so one point four times a six
percent increase so let's find out what
six percent of that is so it's this plus
one point four so this is how much it
would be after one year so I'm gonna
write that down real quick one four
eight four okay
now this for the next year 0.06 is dot
plus one point for a four it will be one
point five seven after two years and now
we're gonna repeat this again two more
times so but yeah I would definitely
look up that equation see you guys in a
way it'll save you a lot of time so this
is our answer one seven six seven four
six so one seven six four zero
no it's this one point seven look at how
similar this two are that is very very
cheeky yeah guys really it's so
important to have a list of those
equations memorized I have them in my
video on the UK account ninety nine
percent okay so we go everything right
which is great
I have those equations written down in
my you count ninety nine percent video
those are equations that you should just
really know off by heart and they'll
save you a lot of time when doing
questions in the UK fifty million people
are employed how many people work in
Turkey and a coronary job so that's
the UK UK tertiary and Corrine so the
total percentage of tertiary and
quarternary is 61 point four plus eight
point nine so seventy point three
percent of 50 million so fifty million
times zero point seven oh three is
thirty five point one five boom next
question the turkey employment sector of
Brazil consists of approximately 18
million people whereas Brazil the turkey
did they say yeah okay what is the total
employed population of Brazil said I
want to go there so tertiary is 52
percent which is 80 million so if that's
52 percent then the total must be very
close to 160 million okay so we know
right off the bat it's one of these two
answers so let's do the calculation real
quick so something so the total times 52
percent which is 0.5 2 is equal to 18 so
80 divided by 0.5 2 will give us this
answer 1 53.84 0.8 4 6 so it's actually
0.85 if you round to two decimal places
okay there's approximately 30 million
people working in the POW how many more
people work in the primary job sector
than this the second day job centre so
30 million people total from the Powell
and I say is how many more in primary
than in secondary so primary is 80
percent so 80 percent of 30 million is
130 times 0.8 is 24 and which one was
not for going in that was for primary
and secondary is 16.5 so 30 times zero
point one six five is four point nine
five so 24 minus four point nine five
will give us the difference in how many
more working one over the other nineteen
point oh five million the population in
the USA is approximately 330 78 percent
of which is employed how many people
work this secondary job center 330
million is the total population of which
78 percent are employed so zero point
seven eight
so 250 7.4 million is what makes up all
of these percentages here all the 250
7.4 million how many work in the
secondary job sector 22% so this times
0.23 50 9.20 - ok so real quick I want
to say about the quantitative reasoning
section on the you can exam it is very
very heavily reliant on ratios
percentages fractions decimal places
things like that those are the topics
that sort of come up almost every single
time for every single question so those
are things that you want to make sure
that you practice very hard and you sort
of understand them very well so you can
intuitively apply what it is that you
know to each of the questions that
you've seen so here's a question that
I've just read and I can see that it's
gonna involve ratios from this over here
it's going to involve some equations
over here that might take me a long time
to type into this calculator and then I
read the first question is talking about
0.6% of the area if the medon body when
you're sitting two-dimensional blah blah
blah blah
basically I read this question and right
now I've determined that I think for me
personally this type of question is
going to take me a much longer time to
answer than other types of questions
would that are probably coming up in my
test so as a result of that I want to
skip this question I want to guess the
answers and I want to come back to it in
the end because I know that I'm going to
take a long time to answer these
questions and because the UK is such a
time-sensitive exam you want to make
sure that you do all the questions that
you can do first the ones that you can
get all the marks on first and then come
back to these harder questions that are
going to take a long time all right
let's move on to the next question and
how many more calories should a 24 old
woman in her third trimester be
consuming than a 16 year old woman in
her first trimester okay okay okay so
let's see what this table is actually
about nutritional crimes from women
that's in this category here 24-year old
woman in her third trimester plus 454
third trimester so that's 28 50 total
and for a 16 old woman in her first
trimester so that's 16 year old here
plus 10 for first trimester so 23 10 so
the difference between 28 50 and 23 10
is 540
all right that's nice - the first
question what is the percentage increase
in magnesium required for a 36 year old
pregnant woman compared to before she
was pregnant okay
so there is an equation for this that
you guys should all know and that you
should all memorize and I'm gonna tell
you it right now it always comes up on
you can't tests this equation says that
the percentage change is equal to the
difference over the original and I'll
explain what that means using this
question for the percentage change
either increase or decrease is equal to
the difference over the original so here
let's find out what the difference is
and what the original was
now we can find the percentage increase
so 36 well pregnant woman compared to
before she was pregnant for magnesium so
36 year-old pregnant woman from
magnesium so 381 she's pregnant
310 when she's not pregnant so 310 is
the original and 380 is the new and the
difference is 17 so 70 over the original
of 310 will give us the percentage
increase 22.6%
22.5 8 next so what is the average
increase in requirement for vitamin A
vitamin C thiamine and riboflavin for a
pregnant 30 old woman from when she was
not pregnant so the increase in
milligrams from vitamin A to vitamin A
is from 700 to 717 which is 0.7
milligrams okay so that's the vitamin A
increase for vitamin C the increase is
from 75 to 85 which is 10 milligram
increase for Thiemann it's a point four
and for riboflavin it is a point four so
the average of these four numbers is ten
point eight plus a zero point seven so
eleven point five divided by four is two
point eight seven five is the average
increase know what yeah this is point O
seven so I take that back so ten point
eight plus zero point zero seven divided
by four two point seven one five so
that's two point seven two all right so
there they tried to trick us with the
conversions so yeah definitely read the
question properly because the UK
honestly tries to trick you at every
possible way that it can so yeah
make sure you're careful when reading
the question all right next question if
two 78 people pass their driving test in
autumn what percentage failed so passed
percentage autumn we don't know okay 278
people pass their driving test in autumn
okay what percentage failed so 5:14 -
278 what's 514 - 514 - 278 will give us
the number of people who failed and 236
as a percentage of the total 514 is
45.9% so 46% so that's the fail
percentage how many people pass their
driving test in the first two seasons
winter and spring okay so easy again two
percentage calculations to do four nine
eight times 0.72 is three five eight
point five six we obviously can't have
0.56 of a person did I do that right
four nine eight times zero point seven -
yeah
so three five eight point five six plus
six five four times zero point four
three - a one point two two so this plus
the previous number three five eight
point five six six three nine point
seven eight and since we can't have
point seven eight of a person or can we
I'm gonna round up guess we can't have
points I have a person generally you
can't but this answer that I arrived at
which is very close to this I'm not
close to anything else here so I'm gonna
stick with it in the autumn there was a
past percentage of 69 percent which
season had the greatest number of passes
hmm
so this is an easy question that we know
how to do were guaranteed to get the
answer right if we go through with
calculating the question but it's good
to know that this is going to take me
four calculations to find so this is
going to take me four steps and this is
going to be one of the longer questions
to answer but since it's easy and I know
I can get the mark for sure I'm still
gonna do it but it's just good for you
guys to start recognizing which
questions will take longer or which
questions will take a shorter period of
time just by reading them very quickly
514 times zero point six nine so
five four point six six and then we
already did two from the previous
question right how do you about Simon
Says in the first two seasons so we
already did the first two now we just
need to do summer so seven eleven times
forty one percent is to nine 10.5 one
and now I'm gonna add all those numbers
together oh no which season had the
greatest number of classes mmm so that
would be the very first one winter boom
next if for seventeen people pass in
autumn was the overall password for the
test center rounded to the nearest
percentage for seventeen passed in
autumn so for seventeen out of five
fourteen gives a pass percentage of
eighty one point one percent so the
overall pass rate for the test center Oh
interesting
mmm so we need to add up the number from
each of these but we've already done
these three in a previous question so
417 people plus how many people was in
summer which we said was two nine five
two nine one point five one I believe
two 91.5 one plus how many was in spring
and how many was in winter so to a one
point two two plus three five eight
point five six this is the total number
of people who passed and let's see the
total number of driving of attempted
driving tests now which is four nine
eight plus six five four plus seven
eleven plus five fourteen she gives us
two three seven seven so one three four
eight point two nine out of two three
seven seven total pass rate of fifty six
point seven percent so fifty-seven
percent if everyone who took the test in
autumn passed how many people passed
over the year if everyone who took the
test in autumn passed how many people
passed over the year so five hundred and
fourteen people passed here Plus this
number Plus this number plus this number
which we just talked they did in the
previous question so five fourteen plus
summer two 91.5 one plus 2 8 1 point 2 2
plus
358.50 for 5.29
so that's closest to one four four six
okay that was also kind of an easier one
I'd say let's see how we did five out of
five brilliant
all right I think I have time to do
another question maybe two so let's do
that now this last one here on a
sold-out performance when twelve hundred
seats are filled how much money is made
from ticket sales alone okay 103 singing
areas
stole 600 which cost sixty six point
five okay so let's start tallying things
up so 600 times sixty six point five
that is thirty nine nine hundred and
then there is circle 400 times fifty two
point five twenty one thousand and then
lastly two hundred seats of which cost
this apart from twenty restricted view
seats which are that okay so then 180
times this whoops not 116 180 times
forty six point five is eight three
seventeen and then twenty times thirty
seven point five is 750 let's add all
these numbers up 39 nine hundred plus
twenty one thousand plus eighty-three
seventeen plus 750 seventy thousand and
twenty okay boom next question your six
primary school teacher once organized a
trip with two year six to thirty
children and clean yourself and
including herself two teachers would be
attending the group plans to say in the
upper circle with no restricted few
seats okay how much will it cost the
Adolphe is a group rate for every ten
tickets sold to a group the eleventh
ticket is free thirty children in each
class so 16 plus the two teachers so the
first ten that go in we're gonna get one
free ticket and that's gonna leave us
with fifty-one students left the next
ten are gonna go in and we'll get one
free ticket which is gonna leave us with
forty students left the next time we'll
go in plus one free ticket will leave us
with twenty nine students left the next
time we'll go in with one free ticket
and that will leave us with eighteen
students left the next ten will go in
with
we take in that will leave us with seven
and then we'll have the remaining six
units so in fact we'll get one two three
four five free tickets okay so instead
of paying for 62 people we're gonna get
five free tickets so we're gonna pay for
57 people and 57 people multiply it by
where they want to sit again upper
circle so forty six point five
26:50 point five boom next susan was
purchased six tickets but the only set
of six tickets in a row left on the
upper circle and two of them are so you
could view how much will it tickets
constant susan super easy question so
four times
4650 is 186 plus the two restrictive
view which are thirty seven point five
inch just one point five times 275 so 75
plus 186 total cost 261 boom the next
question
the musical puts on eight performances a
week if every performance is a solid the
show makes a profit of 124 500 a week
okay the production company originally
invested 20 million how many
performances will the music loft sellout
before it breaks even rounded up to the
nearest whole number
okay so each performance is a week and
in the week they make this much profit
so per performance one two four five
hundred per performance they make 15
five six 2.5 in profit okay so 20
million one two three four five six
divided by 15 five six two point five
one two eight five point one four so
this rounded up to the nearest whole
number so one two five one two eight
five point one four is right here
but that is not rounded up to the
nearest whole number pretty much a trick
question should be one two eight six oh
there's also one two eight five very
cheeky
so it says rounded up to the nearest
whole number so since it's one two since
it's 0.14 we can to round down to one to
a five so we have to round up to one two
eight six give me a cheeky four out of
four so I can be content
nope all right great last question four
out of four ending on a high note
all right guys so that is where I'm
gonna cut it off for the quantitative
reasoning you can't video I hope you
guys enjoyed and were able to see my
fall process when answering these
questions live on camera and that it was
useful to helping you understand and
know how to solve these different
questions if you enjoyed this video
please do leave a like on it and leave a
comment down below it helps me on the
channel immensely and if you want to see
more medical school related content from
me in the future subscribe to my channel
and you guys will be notified every time
that I post the video anyways guys I
hope you've enjoyed and I will see you
in the next one peace